NAME

  RGeom: Ruby-driven geometrically-aware mathematical diagram tool


DESCRIPTION

  RGeom is a programming language (really a Ruby DSL) for generating
  mathematical diagrams.  It's inspired mainly by Eukleides and Asymptote,
  and also TikZ.

  Eukleides is not powerful enough (need to specify every point, no looping
  constructs) and the others are too low-level for my liking.  They produce
  beautiful vector diagrams in LaTeX documents with a certain degree of
  effort, but I want to produce images for use in Microsoft Word, easily.


AUDIENCE

  Anyone interested in generating mathematical diagrams easily.  However, see
  'Status' below.

  Ruby is the implementation language.  Users of this software would benefit
  from a little familiarity with Ruby.  The aim is to make the package so
  compelling that people would consider it worthwhile learning a little Ruby
  in order to use it.  That said, this project is designed to scratch my own
  itch.  If nobody else shares that itch, so be it.

  Potential users are encouraged to become familiar with the other 


EXAMPLES

  This code would produce a right-angled triangle with a square on each side,
  suitable for demonstrating the Pythagorean Theorem.

    require 'rgeom'

    triangle :ABC, :right_angle => :A, :base => 5, :height => 2.7
    square :base => :BA
    square :base => :CB
    square :base => :AC
    mark_right_angle :CAB

    render 'pythagoras.png'

  Only the 'triangle' and 'render' commands of that code work at the moment,
  but 'square' will be trivially implemented soon.  'mark_right_angle' may
  have to wait a while.

  Some examples that actually work can be seen in the 'html-demo' directory
  by opening 'index.html'.


STATUS

  I'm a high school teacher and can only work on this in my holidays.  At the
  moment (Nov 2009), RGeom can generate triangles (based on many sorts of
  specifications), circles (likewise) and segments.

  Over the Christmas holidays, several features (dots, labels, segment marks,
  angle marks) will hopefully be introduced and a proper release will
  hopefully occur.


AUTHOR AND LICENSE

  Gavin Sinclair
  gsinclair at gmail dot com

  This project uses the MIT License.  See 'LICENSE' for details.  If you want
  to use any of the code in your project without bothering with license
  details, contact me via email.
